So I go ahead and go to face mode or press the C key and scroll the mouse wheel just a bit to make it
a little bigger and then click and drag and select these faces.
Now let's extrude this out.
I'll hit the e key.
And this time I'm just going to click and so I can move this straight out like this.
And I think once again I'll scale it a bit and then maybe move it up a little and then I'm going to
hit the e key click the Esc key.
Scale it in a bit more and then I'll hit the key again and move it straight down.
Then hit the cue to scale it in.
So there is our piece for the Yankel.
The last thing I'd like to do is just to create a little joint here between the base of the foot and
the toe.
So what I'll do is all select these two objects and press shift s and cursor to selected and that puts
the cursor right there.
Now if I wanted to move the cursor just a little bit more forward one of the things I could do is go
into the properties panel with the key and if I scroll down here you can see I've got an x y and z values
for the 3D cursor.
Now I could move this in the Y just a bit and I can move it into the center of these two objects and
you can move the cursor in the z axis or in the Y or in the X
right.
So I've got that 3D cursor right between those two objects what I'll do is I'll go ahead and create
a new object or create a cylinder and it'll pop right into the center there.
Now once again this is at 16.
I could use 16 and I think I'll just use 12 here.
The triangle fan is fine.
I will scale this down.
And rotated a bit say around the Y scroll back up and change the Y to 90 degrees and scale this a bit
like this.
Now I have it scaled to the width that I want it.
But what I'd like to do is make it a little bit smaller in terms of the radius of the cylinder.
If I clicked yes it would change the whole thing.
All three axes and I don't want that.
What I'd like is to change or scale the object just in the Y and Z.
One trick to do that here is using the scale manipulator.
If you shift and click on the access you do not want to scale and then move the mouse.
You can see you can scale it in just those two axes so I'm not scaling it in the X but I am in the Y
and Z.
Now that we have the foot in place let's work on the ankle and lower leg here for the ankle of course
we're just going to do a sphere again.
And to do that we can do the same thing we did before.
We can choose an edge here.
With all select and transfer the 3D cursor to the center of that selection with cursor to select it.
And now if I go back to object mode and create a sphere it will pop into that position so that the key
and scale it down a bit.
I think I want it to be a little bit higher than the exact center.
Maybe something like that.
Now with this large it looks like the rest of the object is a little too low.
Now let me take a look at it again from the side view by hitting the three key and the five key.
And if I hit the one key Yeah it looks like I could take that whole body up just a bit.
So I'm going to de-select the sphere with the key and go to a wireframe with the Z key and press the
Beaky for border select.
And I'm just going to drag select all of these pieces make sure I'm in global mode here and just drag
these up a bit maybe something like that.
So I go back into shaded view and rotate around and hit the five key to go back to perspective that
the A key to de-select everything and now we've got him up a little higher.
And let's try it like this.
And once again we're blocking all this in just to get a sense of how he's going to look.
We'll be providing more detail to each of these pieces.
But first we need to get a sense of scale and proportion on him now to create the lower leg.
We can try something a little different this time for the other pieces we've just used a cylinder and
we can certainly still do that.
But when we select these pieces and hit the period key on the numpad to zoom in another way to do this
is to use circles and the bridge tool.
So let's move the cursor up to this fear almoner press shift desk and cursor to selected and then I'm
going to click circle here to create a circle.
Now we don't need thirty two sides to this.
In fact I think we've been working 12 is that right.
So I'm going to put 12 in there and then I'm going to scale this down to around something like this
and maybe move that down a hair like that and scale that in.
And then four down here we could move the cursor to this one and then click circle.
We've got 12 Sides.
That's good.
Scale it in and then maybe move this up some here too as well.
So what I'm going to do is actually use these two circles and bridge between them to create the geometry
of the lower leg here.
But I think I like to angle them towards each other they're currently just kind of flat.
So what I'd like to do is change the pivot point for a moment here from median to 3D cursor.
And so when we click on one of these now the pivot point is no longer at the origin of the object but
the pivot point is that the 3D cursor.
So if I go to the side view here and hit 5 for orthographic.
Now when I rotate this notice I can rotate it at the center of this sphere.
Right.
And aim it toward that other sphere up there.
Like so and now do the same thing appear else like the sphere.
Move the 3D cursor.
And now when I select this object the rotation will happen at the center of the sphere.
And so the circle will kind of slide along the surface of the circle.
So I'm just going to try and get these two circles about parallel now to bridge between them.
They need to be the same object.
I'll go ahead and switch back to median point here.
So to be the same object we need to select both of them and then press control J.
So they become two pieces of the same object.
And now I'm going to hit the tab key to go into edit mode.
And so if I switch to vertices Now you can see the vertices for each of the objects.
All right so I'm going to press the alt key and select and then shift and alt and select.
And now I've got both of these selected I can press control e.
And now we can come down here to bridge edge loops and if we click that you can see geometry is created
between the two circles.
So it's just another way to do this.
All right so let's tab back into object mode and I'll hit the five key to go back to perspective view.
So there we have our lower leg.